So what we're going
to do now is we're
going to turn our attention
to the various intermediate
operations that are most common,
and most interesting, and also,
quite frankly, ones that we're
going to need to understand
in order to make sense
of the later case studies
that we cover related to
sequential and parallel
streams.
We're going to
start our discussion
by focusing on the map
and mapToInt intermediate
operations.
So again, recall that
intermediate operations
are the ones that sit
between the data source
and the terminal operations.
Now, the interesting
thing about our discussion
here is that the
operations that we're doing
are going to apply to both
sequential and to parallel
streams.
And that turns out to
be really important.
And I guess the
main reason why this
is important is you're
probably scratching
your head at this
point, going this
is a class on parallel
functional programming,
but most of what we've
covered up to this point
has focused on
sequential streams.
Why is that?
Well, the reason is that being
a good sequential streams
programmer-- in other words,
understanding the operations,
and the terminal operations,
and the intermediate operations,
and their semantics, and so on--
is guaranteed to make
you a better parallel
streams programmer.
And that's because converting
between a sequential stream
and a parallel stream
as a snap that requires
very minuscule changes.
And so once you understand
good streams programming,
then it's very easy to become
a good parallel streams
programmer.
Although there are
some subtleties
that we will cover
at later weeks that
go into the conditions
under which it makes
sense to apply parallel
streams in practice.
So the point of this is that
everything we cover here
for sequential streams will
apply pretty much lock, stock,
and barrel or straight
through to anything
you're going to do with
parallel functional programming
that we cover later.
Now, we're going to
continue to showcase
these intermediate
operations in the context
of our simple search
stream case study program.
So you can find consistency
and solace in the fact
that what we've covered
before will still be relevant.
And I'll let when we move on
to a new case study, which
won't come for a bit.
So one thing to
recall here is that
these intermediate
operations are lazy,
and they only run after the
terminal operation is reached.
So as you'll see,
map and mapToInt--
which is our focus here--
aren't called until some
terminal operation is reached
in the stream processing stage--
so collect, reduce, forEach,
whatever it might be.
So let's talk about
map and mapToInt.
Map and mapToInt
are both stateless,
run-to-completion operations.
And you'll see that they have
some interesting properties
that are worth noting,
especially when we could start
comparing and contrasting
them to other intermediate
operations we're going to
cover here in just a moment.
We'll start by discussing the
map intermediate operation.
So what map does is it
applies a mapper function
to every element
of the input stream
and returns an
output stream that
consists of the results of
applying the mapper function.
So that's kind of a
high-level discussion.
One thing to
remember about map--
and this will become very
important when we contrast it
with filter, and we can
trust it later with flatMap,
and dropWhile, and takeWhile,
and all these good things--
is the number of output stream
elements that come into map
will end up being the same
number of elements-- sorry,
let me rephrase that.
The number of output
stream elements
that are generated
from map must match
the number of input stream
elements that come into map.
So what that says is map
is applying the mapper
function to every
element from the input,
and it's producing the same
number of output elements.
So it's equal, unless, of
course, an exception is thrown,
but we're not going to think
about that in this context.
So here's the context in which
we apply that the map method--
one of the contexts
in which we apply
the map method in our simple
search stream program.
What we do is we call map.
After we generate a
stream of search words,
we call the map
intermediate operation
and pass it the searchForWord
method reference behavior
to figure out whether that word
appears in the input string.
So that's basically
how it gets used.
And as I mentioned before,
one of the cool things to note
here is that map can be used to
transform the type of element
that it processes.
So as you can see here,
literally visually,
we use map to convert
a stream of strings
into a stream of search results.
And of course,
the way that works
is that searchForWord is a
method that takes a string--
which is the word and
some other stuff--
and then it goes ahead and
returns a search result object.
And so map is simply obeying
that type-matching from input
to output for the
searchForWord method, which
is passed as the behavior to
the map aggregate operation
or intermediate operation.
Here is kind of how this
fits into the broader
context of the code.
You can see that we're using
this fluent programming
style with nice, cascading
method calls, where we first
say wordsToFind.stream to
create a stream of words.
Then we say .map.
We [INAUDIBLE] with a
stream of search results.
Then we say .filter, we get
rid of things that are empty,
and so on and so forth.
So it's nice, and fluent,
and clean, and very stylized.
In fact, I'd like to write
my code much like this.
I always write each of the
aggregate operations on a line
by itself.
And I usually, in real
life, would put comments
before each one
explaining what it does.
Try to avoid the urge to cram
them all together on one line.
It gets very unwieldy
and very hard to comment.
So that's map.
Map is pretty
straightforward to understand
and a very, very common
operation applied in streams.
We're going to turn
our attention now
to a variant of the map
intermediate operation called
mapToInt.
And what this method does--
this aggregate operation
or intermediate operation--
is it returns an
IntStream consisting
of the results of applying the
[? giver ?] mapping function
to all the elements
of the input stream.
And as you'll see here, this is
kind of an interesting variant
of map.
Map took an input stream that
worked with reference data
types and created an
output stream that
would work with
reference data types,
whereas mapToInt is going to
work to convert things into int
streams.
So basically, you can
think of int stream, which
is mapToInt returns, as being
a specialization of the stream
interface for the
int primitive type.
And sadly, we need
to do this in Java
because Java, for a whole
variety of historical reasons,
has relatively
unintegrated type systems.
It has a type system for
its built-in primitive types
like int, to double, and long,
with lowercase i, and lowercase
d, and lowercase l.
And then it has corresponding
so-called reference types,
things like integer
with a capital I,
and double with a capital
D, and long with a L,
and then all kinds of other
classes and interfaces,
and so on.
And they're treated separately
by the Java type system,
which is a bit confusing.
As with map, mapToInt
has an output stream
whose number of elements must
match the number of elements
in its input stream.
So that's the same
as we had before.
So here is actually how we
use this particular method,
and it's used in one
of the helper methods
in the program that
prints results, and does
various processing, and so on.
And what we do here is we have
a list of results that comes
in as a list of result objects.
We convert that to a
stream of result objects,
and then we go ahead and
we use the mapToInt method
to transform the stream
of result objects
into a stream of
primitive int indices.
So we'll have a stream of
ints, like 128, 140, 199,
or whatever.
And so these are actually
now treated as ints,
as opposed to being integers
or some reference type.
As you can see,
obviously, mapToInt
is going to transform the
results into a specialized
type, which, in this case,
is a stream of ints--
or primitive ints, in
this particular case.
So again, it can
do transformations,
as we see here.
This is what the
code looks like.
This method is actually
called computeMax,
and you can see the
computeMax method
takes a list of result
objects, and converts them
into a stream.
And then it goes ahead and
transforms the stream of result
objects into a stream of ints.
Once again, you can see we
use the fluent programming
style with our nicely ordered,
cascading method calls.